tools/README.md, before:

# Tools - Backend CLI

Go-based CLI for database management and event operations.

## Quick Commands

### Event Management
```powershell
make event-add                        # Add single event interactively
make event-list                       # List all events
make event-delete ID=5                # Delete event by ID
make event-import FILE=events.csv     # Bulk import from CSV
```

### Database
```powershell
make init                             # Initialize database
make seed                             # Add sample data
make export                           # Export to JSON
```

### Testing & Build
```powershell
make test                             # Run tests
make build                            # Build CLI executable
make help                             # Show all commands
```

## CSV Template

Use `examples/events_template.csv` as a starting point for bulk imports.

## Documentation

- **[Event Management Guide](../docs/EVENT_MANAGEMENT.md)** - Complete guide for adding/managing events
- **[Main README](../README.md)** - Full project documentation
- **[AWS Deployment](../docs/AWS_DEPLOYMENT.md)** - Deployment instructions

## Workflow

1. Add/edit events (CSV or interactive CLI)
2. `make export` - Generate JSON
3. Test locally in `../site/`
4. Deploy via `aws/deploy.ps1`

Commit message:

Add make deploy command for simplified deployment
Features:
- Add 'make deploy' command that exports data and deploys to AWS
- Add 'make deploy-full' for first-time setup with bucket creation
- Automatically runs export before deployment

Documentation:
- Update main README deployment workflow to use 'make deploy'
- Update tools/README.md with deploy command
- Add deployment commands to Makefile help section

Workflow simplification:
- Before: cd tools && make export && cd aws && ./deploy.ps1
- After: cd tools && make deploy

Tested successfully with deployment to production.

tools/README.md, after:

# Tools - Backend CLI

Go-based CLI for database management and event operations.

## Quick Commands

### Event Management
```powershell
make event-add                        # Add single event interactively
make event-list                       # List all events
make event-delete ID=5                # Delete event by ID
make event-import FILE=events.csv     # Bulk import from CSV
```

### Database & Deployment
```powershell
make init                             # Initialize database
make seed                             # Add sample data
make export                           # Export to JSON
make deploy                           # Deploy to AWS
```

### Testing & Build
```powershell
make test                             # Run tests
make build                            # Build CLI executable
make help                             # Show all commands
```

## CSV Template

Use `examples/events_template.csv` as a starting point for bulk imports.

## Documentation

- **[Event Management Guide](../docs/EVENT_MANAGEMENT.md)** - Complete guide for adding/managing events
- **[Main README](../README.md)** - Full project documentation
- **[AWS Deployment](../docs/AWS_DEPLOYMENT.md)** - Deployment instructions

## Workflow

1. Add/edit events (CSV or interactive CLI)
2. `make export` - Generate JSON
3. Test locally in `../site/`
4. `make deploy` - Deploy to AWS
